Israel has called on Palestinians to
evacuate parts of Rafa in the South as
well as two Northern Gaza neighborhoods
more than 110,000 people in Rafa have
already fled the area as fighting
between Israeli troops and Palestinian
militants intensifies there heavy
clashes have left crucial Aid Crossings
inaccessible meanwhile Israel's military
has also deployed forces north of Gaza
City where the army says Hamas Fighters
have reorganized residents of the city
of jabalia were told to evacuate in
preparation for renewed
combat Tanya Kramer is following
developments for us from Jerusalem and
she joins us now for more good to see
you Tanya so are these renewed
evacuation orders for civilians in Rafa
a sign that Israel is indeed about to
launch a major offensive in the area and
that's despite international calls not
to do
this well absolutely I mean the uh
Israel military still says it is a
limited operation but uh on Thursday the
security cabinet has actually green
lighted the expansion of this uh ground
offensive so we don't know you know how
far um they they will go right now but
we are seeing more evacuation orders now
for the population there still in
eastern Rafa but we've seen and we've
talked to people in RAF saying you know
many of those who are not in these
specific areas but also in other areas
they're fearing and they're very worried
about and they they people who can leave
I mean there's always those vulnerable
people that cannot leave um that you
know they are leaving right now and the
numbers were given by the United Nations
agencies working down the ground over a
100 thousand others have put the number
much higher of those people uh that are
leaving so this is Eastern RAF and as
you said there also evacuation orders
for people again in Northern Gaza in B
lakia which is in the northern part of
Gaza City and the town of B hanon which
is in uh the Northeast uh potentially
indicating that Hamas is regrouping
there uh although Israel has said it is
there mostly under control now what does
it mean for the people on the ground
they have to leave in the southern parts
now uh to an area either going further
up north to Yunis where there's mostly
rubble and and ruins but also they were
asked to go to alari which is on the
shorer on the coastline of Gaza but
eight agencies have said you know the
area there is highly inadequate for so
many people it is without
electricity uh without uh uh you know
running water sewage system and people
have been displaced now many times over
and over again and all this is of course
happening while while the bombardment is
going on and also in this evacuation are
we seeing this since Tuesday is the Rafa
Crossing which has been uh closed since
an a agencies are warning uh that not
enough Aid is coming in anymore although
Israel says some Aid came came in but
there's a dispute over how much Aid is
actually reaching people because the
south of Gaza was mainly where AID
organizations uh were still working uh
in the past
months well Tanya in a separate
development the us says Israel may have
breached international law with American
weapons in Gaza has there been an
official reaction from Israel to these
allegations we don't we didn't see it an
official reaction to this but it's very
uh closely watched because the report
says that Israel's use of Us weapons is
uh likely to be inconsistent with
international law but that it lacks you
know the evidence in specific cases now
human rights groups would argue that
they have documented cases where uh the
force being used is disproportionate
where they more uh this you know in in
the light of the so many civilian
casualties now Israel has rejected uh
those accusations all along it says it
does enough to uh protect civilians but
this comes of course amid a a deepening
Rift between uh the US Administration
and uh Israel about the shipment of arms
and we have to see you know how this
Rafa operation now comes into play in
this because uh the US has always said
said don't this is a red line for them
if Israel goes further deeper into rafar
but you know what will they do and what
will other countries do if Israel is
expanding its ground offens of
there that was ew's Tanya Kramer
reporting from Jerusalem Tanya thank you
so much